before we head to our guests let's take
a look at how the human cost of this
latest War compares to others in the
2008 war on Gaza about 1,400
Palestinians and 13 Israelis died before
a ceasefire was reached in 2014 more
than 2,000 Palestinians were killed in
Gaza 73 Israelis died most of them
members of the Armed Forces and two
years ago another flare up resulted in
250 Palestinians killed in Gaza 13
people lost their lives inside
Israel let's focus now on how this
latest conflict between Hamas and Israel
could pan out and whether it could be
more prolonged and even more bitter than
those that have come before we've got
three guests joining us to discuss this
we have Raphael jerusalmi he is a former
Israeli intelligence officer and is in t
Aviv we have Maran bashara who is
alzer's senior political analyst in
Paris and Par Patrick Buri is a defense
and security analyst before we head to
Our Guest though we're going to cross to
the United Nations where the Israeli
ambassador to the United Nations is
speaking let's listen to what he has to
say and began a barbaric progam a
barbaric prgram of unparalleled
magnitude ruthless terrorists gunned
down innocent Israeli civilians in the
streets murdering anything that moved
anything I'll show you just one
example just look at this photo of
bodies of
women strewn strewn in the street in a
bus stop Innocents murdered in Cold
Blood
these animall likee terrorists broke
into homes gathered entire families into
rooms and shot them point blank as if
they were stomping on on
insects grandparents and the elderly
among them Holocaust Survivors who
endured the Nazis were violently dragged
from their homes This Time by Hamas and
taken into
Gaza
can you get me the photo of the
Holocaust
Survivor look at this grandmother being
forced to hold a Hamas terrorist rifle
as he takes a picture with
her this is inhumane
inhumane mothers and their babies
as well as babies separated from their
mothers were brutally taken
hostage just look at this video
now this mother is crying as she
clutches her two precious babies before
being put on a truck to
Gaza these are war crimes blatant
documented war crimes but
tragically the Abominations don't end
here Hamas terrorists happened upon an
outdoor party of hundreds of young
Israelis celebrating the holiday weekend
these Savages gunned down Jewish
Travelers just like na death squads in
the
1940s hundreds hundreds were boed ured
their bodies mutilated and
defiled and those who survived were
taken to
Gaza listen to this young girl screaming
as she is kidnapped separated from her
friend not knowing what fate awaits
her
[Music]
try to comprehend the magnitude of this
situation try to digest the ruthless
inhumanity I have seen shocking footage
graphic images that will forever be
seared in my
brain what we are witnessing are war
crimes blatant barbaric war crimes
slaughtering civilians abusing hostages
taking babies from their Ruth from their
mothers there are no words to describe
such
savagery I don't want to imagine what is
happening right now to all of those
innocent Israeli civilians being held
captive in Gaza the horrors they are
enduring
okay that was the Israeli ambassador to
the United Nations ahead of a security
council meeting certainly some strong
words of condemnation coming from him I
want to bring in alzer's senior
political analyst Maran bashara to give
us his reaction to what was said by the
Ambassador
Maan uh well it's to be expected of
course U there's been a tragedy of sort
for Israel it was shocked uh to the core
uh by the attack uh yesterday uh by
Hamas Fighters and I think they're
immediately getting engaged in uh public
relations uh campaign in order to
demonize uh Hamas and the
Palestinians and but alas in this uh
very particular region for every uh
picture or image dramatic bloody and sad
as it may be the Palestinian of course
will produce thousand other images and
pictures of
Palestinians uh dead and injured and and
kidnapped and so on and so forth by
Israeli soldiers and Israeli settlers it
is quite unfortunate that instead of the
learning the lessons of history in this
very particular case the Israelis are
immediately resorting to more of the
same hasbara to more of the same
propaganda instead of really looking
Inward and to see what are the root
causes of this issue and what drives
Hamas fighters to carry uh such an
attack why would they
terrorize uh the population of thousand
Israel what is the nature of occupation
what is the nature of Oppression that
produces this kind of resistance because
as we know from 300 years and more of
history of such asymetrical conflicts
when Guerilla Warfare takes place
against uh occupi or imperialists or
colonialists it's always a certain
dialectic between repression and
resistance and resistance as it were the
Apple doesn't follow far from the tree
the resistance is very much a a mirror
image of the occupation except the
resistance seems to be unfortunately I
would put it that way retail violence
while occupation is a whole sale
violence against the people Maan I
appreciate your insights I want to move
away from the historical context now and
look at what's currently happening
militarily and let's return to our
guests bring in Raphael jerusalmi who is
a former Israeli intelligence officer in
Tel Aviv and Patrick Buri who is a
defense and security analyst and former
British Army Captain I'm going to start
with you though Raphael um we've heard
tonight those the most recent
developments coming out of Israel and
from the knesset is an official
declaration of war what if any impact
will that have on the conflict on the
ground it will give more power uh to the
government and to the Army uh to take
Extreme Measures to act fast uh to have
quick decisions to strike uh very hard
uh I must say that what happened and I'm
happy to have an example of some body
just before me uh on the screen to
justify uh raping and killing women and
children uh which is a very good thing
because this killing of children this
raping uh has led uh Israel to
eventually understand who we are dealing
with we are dealing with a a faction a
terrorist faction that we hoped until a
few days ago that we could uh
have improve the way of life of the the
people of Gaza I want to say very
quickly and and very from the beginning
I want to dissociate the Palestinian
people from those people who are
attacking Israel in such a way the
Palestinian people we have no hatred for
them and they have no hatred for us they
are being as we spoke of Rel I'm just
going to interrupt you there I'm sorry
because you've just made quite a a
strong allegation in terms of the raping
of women I think we do need to clarify
that as as far as I'm aware we haven't
actually heard any confirmation that
that is what's been happening on the
ground and as we've been reporting there
have been hundreds of Civilian deaths on
either side perhaps before we go to our
other guest marn I'll just get you to
respond to Raphael if we
can look uh uh just in a very you know
sober way if one can be sober in such uh
tragic uh uh times we know that Hamas
held uh one very particular
captive and that was gilad Shalit an
Israeli soldier for a number of years
and then he was released in a prisoner
exchange and what we know from gilit
himself after he was released from
captivity by Hamas in Gaza is that
basically nothing much happened to him I
mean and as much as there is anger
frustrated frustration and pent up
violence in Gaza in the end of the day
the Israeli soldiers was healed was
released and in as far as I could tell
from interviews with him he was remained
as he was before he was uh uh uh uh you
know uh uh gotting to be captive by
habas okay I want to move on I want to
move on now okay sorry rapael I'll let
you explain I'll let you respond I will
just ask a question I do not want to go
into this sterile debate of who is the
most noty the Jews or the Palestinians
in this story and who has perpetuated
the most atrocities this is a sterile
debate yes my question again my question
again is very simple in what way do you
think that this operation of killing
civilians yesterday will improve the
quality of life of the people of Gaza in
what way do you think this will advance
the Palestinian cause do you really
believe that by doing this you are going
to liberate Palestine and make
Palestinian people happy ra I'm the one
that excuse me sir I'm I'm the one
that's going to ask the questions here
as much as I appreciate your uh opinions
and I want to focus the whole point of
this panel is to focus on the military
situation at the moment I think that we
can go back and forward about this
historical Conflict for days and weeks
but what I want to focus on is the
military conflict and that's why I want
to bring in Patrick uh we're hearing
that the White House particularly Joe
Biden has spoken to the Israeli Prime
Minister and as well Netanyahu has
spoken to um excuse me the White House
has spoken to net Netanyahu and he has
said that additional assistance for
Israeli Defense Forces is now on its way
to Israel what do you think that looks
like good evening I think the first
thing would be intelligence support
that's the kind of assets you can move
quickly um to get over the areas in
question try to give um Israel some more
plugin from the US intelligence side um
that's usually the kind of thing uh
potentially with some high-tech weapons
the Israelis obviously have a very
capable Arsenal themselves so it's
probably less of a a um a requirement
than just getting some extra Intel
support in the first instance so they
can understand the picture because
they've been taken by surprise I think
as Raphael said there's an intent thing
here which has been a failure they've
misunderstood hamas's int tensions and
then at the operational level clearly
they've been taken badly by surprise
even though as history tells us you know
this holiday season you should be more
aware more cautious than usual um and
there'll obviously be serious political
repercussions of this what looks like
also an intelligence potentially a
policy failure as well yes just on that
point and I'll just stick with you for
just a moment from a military
perspective how hard will it be for
Hamas to maintain this level of conflict
now that we're hearing some of these
superpowers are going to get
involved well I don't know the
superpowers getting involved might be an
overstatement this would be intelligence
support you know it's no boots on the
ground or anything like that it's kind
of the thing you do with allies and
partners of which Israel is to the
United States so um no what listen the
most interesting thing about this from a
military perspective obviously is the
way that Hamas were able to overcome uh
in in a coordinated attack at multiple
targets five or six in synchronized in
time uh using it first drones against
you've got to remember the wall is
basically a bit of a network it's not
just a wall that they've broken through
um they've managed to disable the
sensors using drones uh also knocked out
tanks using drones we've seen that in
the Ukraine war um they've used the
barrages of it looks like Iranian
supplied missiles to get around it
through Iron Dome overwhelm it uh and
then at the same time using either
gliders or just attack squads
essentially cut through the wire and get
into some of the even army bases I think
it raises questions as to Israel's
military capability which which isn't a
good look for Israel since it look likes
to be uh seen as the strong man and
Incredibly capable in in that region um
and potentially there's you know
speaking to some experts there's a
question mark have they been too sort of
raid and and counterterrorism focused
and maybe not expecting this um so I
think there's a there's a lot of
repercussions to come out of this for
sure Raphael what's your response to
what Patrick said as a Former
Intelligence officer how do you see the
US support playing out will that come in
the form of
intelligence uh it will come in the form
of intelligence uh as usual but it also
comes into a logistic support we need
more and more ammunition from the iron
system uh we had between two and
3,000 uh rockets and missiles being shot
from Gaza into Israel so we used a lot
of our ammunition and usually the United
States help us uh to have more Weaponry
more Munitions uh I don't think we do
need um the American Army I'm sure that
Joe Biden doesn't want to have American
troops boots on the ground uh and not
even the fleet in in the Mediterranean
it wouldn't help in any way because what
gives a lot of superiority to the Hamas
is that Gaza is a very densely populated
area and it's very difficult to operate
there it doesn't matter if you bring the
whole American Army that's not going to
change anything because we're talking
about Urban Guerilla Warfare which is
like from house to house from streets to
Street in very narrow most of the time
streets that of course the inhabitants
of Gaza know very well and that a
soldier coming in from abroad that
doesn't know uh it gives a very a
tremendous advantage and it always has
been gerilla Warfare as against the
regular army it's a very complicated
intricate situation especially that in
Gaza because of the density of the
population and because the leaders of
the Hamas are hiding behind schools and
hospitals uh makes it extremely
difficult to operate he has to be very s
surgical uh and very fast and we have
here a very big problem that's why uh
the IDF will avoid as long as possible
to enter with ground forces uh there
will be as much as possible a pounding
from the artillery and the Air Force and
that's why today uh we have asked uh
citizens of Gaza to leave their homes to
go to a beach to go to a field but to
evacuate their homes because we are now
destroying everything that is a command
center or commun Communication Center of
the Kamas and these are usually in
buildings inside the city okay I'll let
I'll just let Maran respond because
we're talking about the military might
of Israel versus Hamas how has Hamas
managed to acquire and amass this huge
amount of Weaponry especially Rockets
even as it's under sage and given the
sanctions well I'm sure they're not
going to give out give away their
secrets right uh but let's uh let's put
it this way
Emily as it were uh need is the mother
of all inventions and because of the
dimetry of forces of power uh between
Israel and the Palestinian factions the
Palestinian factions had to resort to
new creative way uh in order to uh
confront Israel in order to defend
themselves and these uh means tend to be
uh the kind of things that we've seen uh
the way they could uh bypass uh the
Israeli wall of security through by air
or by sea or digging these countless
tunnels right as they did as they did in
the past so clearly they have gone from
strategy to strategy they have tried to
devise new intelligent creative ways
some of them are FR controversial uh but
be that as it may they needed to do that
because in a symmetrical Warfare the
weaker party cannot face the stronger
party uh face to face you know the 18th
century Warfare is over in this kind of
asymmetrical Warfare as Israel pounds
Gaza by rockets and by planes and that's
certainly random not exactly targeted
because you could never Target anything
by you know uh launching these sorts of
rockets against a populated area but to
say to people to go to the beaches and
and to the and to the fields when just
yesterday we've heard that the Israelis
were in fact bombing the fields so in
Gaza a prison of two three million
people there is nowhere to go the only
way they can do in fact is only swim for
it and you can imagine how ridiculous
that sounds okay I want to move on to
another issue Patrick I'll address this
question to you we know that there are
an unknown number of Israeli prisoners
that are being held by
Hamas Hamas has used prisoners before
like this in the past and managed to
gain a lot in exchange so how do you see
them using these prisoners going forward
particularly within the
negotiations so I just to actually pick
up on one thing Maran said it's all all
correct in terms of you know being
creative Innovative adaptive they're
also getting Hamas are getting a lot of
help from the Iranian revolutionary
guards score and that point needs to be
made um it's very clear so um and that
would be training and weapon support uh
as to the hostages the um the hostages
essentially there as an insurance policy
to try to slow down or deter a uh a a
ground incursion uh and also the air
strikes to make it more complex in terms
of the where they're going to hit they
want to make sure the IDF will want to
try to make sure that they're not going
to bomb their own civilians who've been
held hostage so it's essent essentially
about a deterrence and about a um a
slowing down of the ground offensive if
it can work in that sense and finally
then as you correctly identified as a as
a chip a bargaining chip in negotiations
but you know we're not in the
negotiations phase here at all and the
the priority of course will be for those
if that's what they're to be used as
ultimately as a bargaining ship well
then the uh the Palestinians and the
Hamas who's taken them essentially have
to ensure their safety don't they so
that they're not killed so we shall see
we've already seen in the past hour or
two uh heavy strikes heavy bombardment
on Gaza City uh Raphael do you think
that we will see this conflict turning
to the ground do you think that the
military will turn to offensive
operations going forward and what form
will that take will that be boots on the
ground entering the
Border yes it would be it has to be
there's no choice to finish the job uh
boots on on the ground because uh this
time it is true we have uh this problem
of the hostages uh that we want to spare
on the other hand these hostages are the
very last hostages the Hamas will ever
put their hands on meaning uh the
violence of this attack the surprise
attack the cruelty of this surprise
attack have achieved two things unity in
Israel the Israelis were divided until
that attack it was political chaos it
was a social controversy everybody is
now United from the top to the bottom
and everybody's United in one thing to
finish once and for all the Kamas the
Hamas Yesterday by performing this
attack has signed its own death warrant
it shall be destroyed it is the last
time they will have hostages they might
be sacrificed or they might be saved but
the priority is to finish once and for
all and because of that uh there will be
boots on the ground the advice that is
given by
most security person including myself is
to send these boots on the ground as
late as possible and to destroy from the
air and from the artillery as much as
possible because as was rightly pointed
once the Israeli troops enter Gaza they
will suffer a lot of
casualties all right rapael Maan we only
have a few minutes left of the program I
just I guess I wanted to get your
perspective as we talk about military
and the politics we're ultimately
talking about people and we've had
hundreds of casualties on both the
Israeli and on the Gaza side just a
final thought from
you uh look it's horrible right
casualties civilians on either side on
any side but I think this very
particular conflict we need to go beyond
the casualties because that's not what
the leaders really think about believe
it or not they're not as Humane as the
rest of us I think here what we have is
a major blow to Israel's strategy policy
psychology and so on so forth and while
the Israeli is now are united around
Netanyahu because of the tragedy I think
soon enough Netanyahu is going to be
deposed because everything all these
failures happened under his watch and
why did this all happen and just very
briefly let's summarize 4,000 years of
History the ancient Greece understood it
better than anyone else it's called it's
called hubris arrogance arrogance breeds
blindness and stupidity the Israelis
were arrogant in 73 and they were dealt
up blow they were arrogance in the 1980s
and they were dealt up blow by the
Lebanese resistance and they're again
been arrogant towards the Palestinians
and they were delt of Loos it's tragic
but that's just what happened when hubus
is the order of the day for Israel yeah
there's certainly a lengthy historical
context that we could spend a long time
taking into account we really appreciate
all of our guests thoughts unfortunately
we do have to leave it there but we will
continue our rolling
coverage of the war between Israel and
Gaza and I'll just recap there are more
than 700 Israeli C casualties and almost
400 Palestinians stay with us we have
more news in just a moment